Aryan Khan drugs case: Complete story of arrest of SRK’s son in Mumbai cruise ship drugs case

Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan was arrested on October 3 in connection with the Mumbai cruise drugs case. The Bombay High Court granted him bail on October 28. Here's a comprehensive guide to everything that happened in between.

Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested in connection with the Mumbai cruise drugs case early in October. Several court hearings, lots of drama and 26 long days in custody later, the Bombay High Court granted him bail on October 28. He finally walked out of jail on October 30, just in time for his father's birthday. Here’s a comprehensive guide on everything that happened in between in the Aryan Khan-Mumbai cruise drugs case.

THE STORY IN A NUTSHELL
Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, is no stranger to the spotlight. Except perhaps the kind of headlines he was at the centre of throughout October. ‘Bollywood superstar SRK’s son Aryan Khan arrested in drugs case,’ screamed headlines on October 3, 2021, beginning a filmy saga that resulted in Aryan Khan cooling his heels at Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail for 22 days.

Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 in connection with a drugs raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau. Helmed by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the NCB’s Mumbai unit raided a cruise ship off the city coast. Aryan Khan, along with several others, was arrested and accused of consumption and ‘conspiracy’, among other charges.

From October 3 onwards, Aryan Khan was doing the rounds of courts in Mumbai seeking bail. Like every good film script, this story too had a side-plot developing on the fringes with NCB's Sameer Wankhede coming under the scanner due to allegations of extortion in the case.

After several days of court arguments centred on the consumption and possession of drugs, the Bombay High Court granted Aryan Khan bail on October 28. He finally walked out of jail once the paperwork was complete two days later.

WHO IS ARYAN KHAN?
Aryan Khan, born on November 13, 1997, is the eldest child of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan and interior designer Gauri Khan.

Aryan Khan holds a Bachelor’s degree in Fine Arts, Cinematic Arts and Television Production from the School of Cinematic Arts at the University of Southern California in the United States. He did his schooling in the United Kingdom and Mumbai.

Aryan Khan has two siblings, sister Suhana and brother AbRam.

MUMBAI CRUISE DRUGS CASE: HOW DID IT ALL BEGIN?
On October 2, Aryan Khan left his home in Mumbai’s Bandra to attend a party on board Cordelia Cruises' Empress ship. A two-day ‘musical voyage’ had been organised by a Delhi-based events company.

On receiving a tip-off, a team of the Narcotics Control Bureau’s Mumbai unit, led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, boarded the ship disguised as passengers.

On board the ship, NCB officials began a search and the same night, it was reported that the NCB had seized various illegal drugs such as cocaine, charas, and MDMA from the ship and detained 7-8 people, including a Bollywood star’s son.

WHEN WAS ARYAN KHAN ARRESTED?
Aryan Khan was formally placed under arrest at around 2 pm on October 3, a day after the raid. Two others -- Munmun Dhamecha and Aryan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant -- were also arrested.

According to the arrest memo, Aryan Khan was placed under arrest for "involvement in consumption, sale and purchase" of contraband.

By then, the NCB had claimed to have seized 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of MD, 21 grams of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and Rs 1.33 lakh in cash during the raid on Cordelia Cruises' ship.

WHAT ARE THE CHARGES AGAINST ARYAN KHAN?
Aryan Khan was charged under four sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. These charges include:

1. Section 8(c)

This section prohibits the production, manufacturing, possession, selling, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consumption, inter-state import and export, import to and from India, or transship of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance, except for medical or scientific purposes.

2. Section 20(b)

Under this section, possession, cultivation, manufacture, sale, transport, and use of cannabis are punishable offences.

If the accused is in possession of a ‘small quantity’, imprisonment involves a term which may extend to six months.
If the quantity is less than ‘commercial’ but greater than ‘small’, the imprisonment may extend to ten years.
If the quantity involved is ‘commercial’, imprisonment shall not be less than ten years but may extend to twenty years.
3. Section 27

Under Section 27, the consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance is a punishable offence.

4. Section 35

This section presumes that the accused knew what they were doing. Hence, the accused will be treated guilty unless proven innocent.

WHAT HAPPENED IN COURT?
In the Aryan Khan drugs case story, courts in Mumbai became the site for much of the drama.

Aryan Khan’s legal team, which included senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, Satish Maneshinde and Amit Desai, argued for him to be released on bail. The NCB, represented by Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, opposed his bail plea.

Here’s a quick look at the top developments in court:

October 4: During one of the first hearings in the Aryan Khan case, the NCB sought an extension of the star kid’s police custody till October 11. However, the court granted NCB custody of Aryan Khan and the others only till October 7.

October 7: The NCB again sought custody of Aryan till October 11. The court refused the demand and instead sent him to 14-day judicial custody. Aryan was shifted to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail the next day. He was being held at the NCB office until then.

October 8: Aryan Khan moved the court for both interim and regular bail. The magistrate court, which was hearing the matter, rejected the bail application on grounds of it being ‘non-maintainable’ in that particular court.

October 11: A special NDPS court heard the bail plea and directed the NCB to file its reply by October 13.

October 13: The court adjourned the hearing for the next day after hearing arguments from both sides.

October 14: The special NDPS court judge reserved his order on Aryan Khan’s bail application. With courts shut for the weekend and other holidays, the next hearing was scheduled for October 20, meaning that Aryan would stay in jail at least until then.

October 20: In the afternoon, the special NDPS court rejected Aryan Khan's bail application. Aryan's lawyers said that they would go to the Bombay High Court in appeal against the rejection of bail by the lower court. Aryan Khan continues to remain in prison.

October 21: Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde, along with his team, went to the Bombay High Court. The court said it will hear Aryan Khan's appeal on Tuesday, October 26.

October 26: The Bombay High Court began hearing Aryan Khan's bail plea. The NCB opposed the plea while former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi, along with others, argued in favour of bail for Aryan Khan. The hearing will resume at 2.30 pm on Wednesday. Meanwhile, a special NDPS court granted bail to two accused in the case.

October 28: The Bombay High Court granted bail to Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha.

What were Aryan Khan’s major arguments in favour of bail?

No drugs were recovered from him
Alleged WhatsApp chats are unconnected to the current case
Even if true, allegations pertain to ‘small quantity’ and ‘consumption’ only
No criminal antecedents
No likelihood of fleeing
READ FULL REPORT

What were the NCB’s major arguments against bail?

Drugs recovered from Aryan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant (allegedly six grams of charas) were for both of them
WhatsApp chats suggest ‘international drug trafficking’
Aryan Khan is involved in conspiracy so the amount of drugs recovered is immaterial
He is a regular consumer of contraband
Release of any accused will hamper the investigation
THE BIG SATURDAY RELEASE
On October 30, Aryan Khan finally walked out of jail. He was greeted at his home in Mumbai's Bandra by scores of SRK fans who had collected to celebrate the big release.

Although he was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on October 28, he only left jail two days later. This is because the court's operative order was released only on the morning of October 29. As per the bail order, Aryan Khan cannot leave the country without permission and must inform the investigating officer in the case before leaving Mumbai. The major saga is complete with a happy ending for Aryan, but case abhi baaki hai!

On October 29, Aryan Khan's expansive legal team tried to complete the paperwork by the jail's deadline of 5.30 pm for submitting bail papers. However, they missed the deadline and he was, hence, finally released the next morning.

WITNESS ADDS TWIST, SAMEER WANKHEDE UNDER SCANNER
On October 24, the case took a new turn when independent witness Prabhakar Sail stated in a notarised affidavit that Rs 25 crore had been demanded on behalf of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede for the release of Aryan Khan.

Prabhakar Sail, bodyguard to another witness KP Gosavi, also alleged that he was made to sign a blank panchnama. He said that KP Gosavi was the one who had made the Rs 25 crore demand on Sameer Wankhede's behalf.

In response to these allegations, the NCB issued a press release saying that Sameer Wankhede has denied all the claims. The agency also said that Prabhakar Sail's affidavit would be forwarded to the NCB chief so further action can be taken.

Sameer Wankhede, meanwhile, wrote a letter to the Mumbai Police Commissioner requesting him to "ensure that no precipitate legal action is carried out" against him by "unknown persons" with "ulterior motives" to frame him.

On October 25, NCB deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh said an inquiry had been initiated to probe the allegations levelled against Sameer Wankhede.

However, Aryan Khan's legal team distanced itself in court from independent witness Prabhakar Sail's affidavit. Aryan Khan's affidavit on the matter said, "The applicant has nothing to do with the allegations and counter-allegations that are currently on public/social media... The applicant does not make any allegations against any individual in the prosecution department... The applicant has no connection with the said Mr Sail."

ARYAN KHAN ARREST: HOW DID EVERYBODY REACT?
After Aryan Khan's arrest on October 3, reactions poured in from Bollywood stars and politicians through the month of his detention.

Actor Suniel Shetty asked the media to let Aryan Khan breathe and not jump to conclusions. “It is our responsibility to take care of the child,” Shetty said.

Film director Pooja Bhatt wrote on Twitter, "I stand in solidarity with you. SRK. Not that you need it. But I do. This too, shall pass.”

Actor Hrithik Roshan posted a heartfelt letter addressed to Aryan on Instagram. He wrote, “God is kind. He gives only the toughest ones the toughest balls to play.”

Others, including directors Farah Khan and Karan Johar, were seen visiting Mannat, the Khan family’s home in Mumbai’s Bandra. Actor Salman Khan visited multiple times.

Among politicians, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said he was “repelled by the ghoulish epicaricacy displayed by those witch-hunting” Shah Rukh Khan.

Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti claimed that Aryan Khan was being targeted by law enforcement agencies because of his Muslim surname.

On being asked about the case, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said he would fight for “those who are voiceless and weak, not for those whose fathers are powerful"

Meanwhile, Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik alleged that the NCB’s raid on the cruise was ‘fake’ and the BJP was using central agencies to “defame Maharashtra, the Maharashtra government and Bollywood.” He questioned the presence during the raid of two people who allegedly have nothing to do with the NCB. One of them, he claimed, was associated with the BJP.